We're going to go through adding some
mobile optimizations to this, this
mobile app, or the exercises slash mobile
app that we've been working on here.
So we're going to begin, and
get rid of my structured data notes here.
And all of this.
We're going to begin by.
Killing our Open Graph exercise here,
and doing run- e mobile.
So we've started up this
next example here, and
if we go to local host,
we can see that it resembles the same app.
The only thing that's different
is I've included a lot of icons,
and you had a sort of different
starting point here, so
that you didn't have to figure out all
of the different special icons for
making all of the different
mobile devices happy.
So here are all of your meta tags.
And, you could put them in
your list of courses as well.
One thing to keep in mind when you have
an add to homescreen bookmark is that,
once that's on the user's home screen,
that's their entry point into
that into your app forever.
Right, so if they were looking at this
particular course, and they bookmarked it,
they're always going to see Phoenix
Fundamentals, when they hit that bookmark.
So, some people like to put it just
on the root page of their domain, so
that's a good starting point,
and an entry point.
There's an attempt to add
stuff to this manifest Jason.
It's a property called-
Route Underscore URL
where you can define the entry point for
your app.
And, mobile browsers will hopefully
adopt this, and respect it.
As, part of what makes an app experience
right you always when you launch
a native app like Facebook or LinkedIn,
you expect to start out by looking at
like the feed and then go to the profile,
regardless of where you
left off 6 months ago.
So let's get rid of course we're gonna
just be working at index.hbs here.
I'm gonna start by getting rid of
the comments here just because I
wanna enable all of these different icons.
And there are a lot of them.
And you see some of them have
these sizes attributes here.
It's a complicated world mobile app icon.
So I end up having to
refer to like the same.
Just send the same cheat sheets over,
and over again.
So, maybe this is your cheat sheet.
In addition, I wanna make sure
that I add the viewport meta tag.
So I'm just gonna go
back to my slides here,
and grab that one that was early on here.
And just for fun, well,
no, we'll keep it as is
Then we can add all three of these on two,
sorry for
all the back and
forth everyone, and three.
So this is gonna take care of
making our iOS experience.
Fullscreen when launched
from the homescreen.
Finally, let's worry about
our web app manifest.
So we're gonna put that here, and we have
to create a new file in this project
in the public folder called manifest.JSON.
I'm just gonna copy the HTML I had
over here as a starting point.
Now you get to see some of my animation
tricks, make this little more difficult
than it otherwise would
be right when I wanted.
[SOUND] Okay, so icons are gonna go here,
comma and then we can get the bottom half,
There we go.
So we're gonna go with
standalone display mode.
We can put some icons in here now.
So someone pointed out that in the PDF I
sent out some icons were missing,
because I used some keynote
acrobatics to slide them in.
And sorry about that.
There somewhere, wow,
where the heck did they go?
I think that's one.
Okay, grab one, there we go 192 pixels,
so well, we'll grab that.
Let me just make sure that
file actually exists in here.
Android, chrome 192 by
192 that looks correct.
So we'll just leave that in here,
we're missing out on the 512 pixel.
Nice image there,
because I don't think we have a 512, yeah,
we do not, so that's fine.
So now we've got our web app manifest.
The last thing I wanna do here is,
right at the bottom of my body,
I wanna put a script tab, that makes
use of this Add to Home screen Library.
We're just gonna use it with the defaults,
which means it's gonna generate
the message on the fly, it's gonna
go grab the icon from the metadata,
you could pass it an image
URL to use instead.
But this library does a really good job
of making reasonable default assumptions.
So just for fun,
let's see what this looks like in
our sort of simulated mobile device.
I wanna see a little
drop down thing happen.
Come on, drop down.
I may have, in all likelihood I do
have the local storage variable set,
of course I do.
There we go, so
there's our little drop down thing here,
here's another way to simulate it.
[SOUND] So if you're a iOS developer
of some sort, you probably
have Xcode installed, and there is
something called the iOS simulator.
This is sort of a fake iOS device
that runs on your it's virtualized,
so we can use mobile Safari on
this device, hit our Hero's URL,
and we can all see how
this ends up working.
So I'm gonna end up deploying this.
[SOUND]
All right,
and it's gonna go and
do its thing.
And while I wait,
let me just grab the URL here.
All right, so it is allegedly deployed,
looks like the refresh worked.
Now let's go to our mobile device,
and see what happens.
So we're gonna fire it up,
paste something in there, nope, guess not.
I cannot scale that at all,
that's interesting.
Did viewport tag network
the way we thought it would?
>> Mean the Euro emulator.
>> Scale, Wrong direction.
This is as good as I can
get unfortunately, and
I don't see the little
drop down happening.
Interestingly, let me hook up Safari and
see what's going on.
So this is a pro tip for, if you want to
use the simulator for web development,
you can actually use this develop menu
which sorry, you can't see in the room.
There is a simulator menu there,
and you can actually connect to it.
Your mobile environment there.
So now I have dev tools here.
>> I don't think you deployed to Heroku
>> I might not have let's see.
This looks like it did though, right?
You know what I didn't do.
[SOUND] There we go.
This will fix it.
I will pick up that debugging thread
as soon as we see that this works.
Look how much better that viewport is.
And look at that nice
little like drop down thing
that is pointing directly to my share
button, and I can hit that button.
Add to homescreen, we had a nice meta
tag there that that puts this here.
And now when we add it to the homescreen,
and launch it,
we have a full screen experience here, all
of the browser, Chrome Boom has gone away.
And it kind of behaves like a native app.
Now obviously, you would want to style
this, so it looks like a native app,
fixed navbar, and
maybe something along the bottom.
So it's a nice familiar experience.
But this is now you've created
a experience that sort of is
elevated a step above
what the browser offers.
Now in terms of what Safari does now that
I have it connected to my iOS simulator,
I can actually hover over.
Let me make sure I'm still connected here,
simulator, okay.
Apparently I wasn't, I can use it the same
way we would use Chrome dev tools.
In that, I should be able to
inspect element, stuff like that.
Where's my little inspector here it is?
So here's Phoenix fundamentals, see how I
get that little rectangle hovering around,
you used to this view fused
inspect element before,
I can even run JavaScript in here.
And you get the expected result.
So I love this trick.
I love debugging in the simulator, because
it's this much more closely resembles
a true mobile device,
compared to like mobile mode in Chrome,
because it's emulating all
of the stuff around it.
Stuff like seeing what the home screen
icons actually gonna look like.
In this case we'd say,
it's low resolution here.
Another point standalone mode.
You'll notice we've got safari,
and front end masters.
There has independent frames here.
So they're regarded as sort of
independent running entities.
So we could like.
We can kill Safari, and
like front end masters is there,as
sort of its own thing its own thread.
>> So we are clicking to a course.
>> Good question clicking to a course.
The weakness revealed.
So here what's happened is you
have to be careful about, when
only putting this full screen experience
in place when you're ready for it.
So this works really well for
single page apps, because they intercept,
the default behavior of links, right?
So instead of like links,
which typically tell the browser, go and
make a new request to this URL,
and bring back some HTML and
show it to me, they will typically
tell it something called a router
to take you to another like virtual page.
But it's still one page view and you're,
it's just a lot of sophisticated hiding
and showing of divice on the screen.
That looks like a multi page experience.
In this case,
we wouldn't have found ourselves
kicked out of the full screen mode.
And we would have sort of stayed in
this world of seeming like a mobile app.
If you put this full screen
experience in too soon, like this,
this feels silly, right?
Like the first thing we tried to do.
We ended up leaving getting
kicked back out to a browser,
at which point, what's the point.
But it's still useful to know
what these meta tags do,
how the web app manifest works, and so on.
So, I do wanna show you one last thing.
So I mentioned the idea of Google's index.
Splitting between mobile,
and non mobile, flavours,
and I did want to show you the new sort
of best in class benchmarking tool for
seeing how fit is your app for,
a mobile friendly world.
Specifically, this deals with like
progressive web app technologies.
And we're gonna have a course on front
end masters later this year that
relates to that.
But I'm gonna use a Chrome
extension called lighthouse.
And it runs in your browser, right?
So it'll work on localhost.
And when you run the report, what it's
gonna do is throttle your CPU down to 10%.
Throttle your network down to,
like a good 2G signal,
and make sure that you still
have a presentable experience.
And then we're gonna get
a score from 0 to 100.
And I, yeah, so we're at a 48, in terms
of things that we're missing here,
it's saying that great web
applications work offline,
they at least provide some sort
of response when they're offline.
Even if it is, sorry, this, this app
doesn't work while you're offline.
Our page load performance
is sufficiently fast.
This is what we get from a server
side rendered environment here.
We've got express js, right?
Serving up HTML, instead of a single page
app, which kind of slows things down.
So you typically have to
do a single page app,
plus server side rendering
to get the whole picture.
The site to the network
connection is secure.
This is what we got by way of that https.
Is true, you know that meta or sorry,
that environment variable we pass for
Roku switch that on, which is part of
this project that you guys have here.
It's just a little logic in the server
js file, down here in the source folder.
That you can take a look
at later if you care to.
The user being prompted
to add to homescreen.
It requires a couple
different things here.
It looks like I have an error in
my web app manifest, in fact, so
I have an error in my JSON at position 32.
Let me investigate that really quick.
Because that might boost
the score up considerably.
And I want us to be able to
see like what that looks like.
So, line position 32,
I wish it would tell me a line.
You know what it is now part of JSON.
Thanks.
Thanks, editor for
thinking it's JavaScript.
So if we get rid of our comments,
then we'll have the benefit
of this web app manifest,
should boost that score up considerably.
[SOUND] All right, so
while that's going over
the wire, here's our
custom splash screen.
We're gonna get credit for
a lot of this stuff.
Once it deploys, we'll just wait for
it and rerun the test.
All right refresh, to get that extra
long page load as it boots up for
the first time.
Now let's see how we do.
So is it 48 without the web app manifest,
this accident lets us see how much of a
difference this makes in terms of scoring.
A lot better, we're at a lot 80.
So I don't.
I don't believe that this has that
much of a correlation to SEO.
But Google is building tools to
help us test mobile fitness.
And they built an index that takes
mobile fitness into account.
I would listen to what they have to say.
But see here now we get a lot
of web app manifest stuff.
We don't have a service worker yet.
There's a meta tag we could have added for
theme color here that matches, that sort
of an alternate placement for the same
theme color that's in our manifest, JSON.
Here it wants us to use
h2 instead of HTTP 1.
But we're taking a lot of
boxes at this point, for
making really a nice modern app that
has all of this metadata in place.
Right?